# Server Components

- By default, Next.js uses Server Components
- Server Components allow you to write UI that can be rendered and optionally cached on the server

- Benefits of using server components
  - __Performance__: moving data fetching to the server, which improves performance by reducing data fetching time and the number of requests from clients
  - __Security__: keeping sensitive data and logic on the server
  - __Streaming__: spliting the rendering work into chunks and stream them to the client as they become ready

- Rendering of server components:
  - on the server:
    - [each component can be considered a chunk](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/loading-ui-and-streaming#what-is-streaming)
    - each chunk is rendered into a special data format called the React Server Comopnent Payload (RSC Payload)
    - Next.js uses the RSC Payload and Client Component JavaScript instructions to render HTML on the server.
  - on the client:
    - The HTML is used to immediately show a fast non-interactive preview of the route - this is for the initial page load only.
    - The React Server Components Payload is used to reconcile the Client and Server Component trees, and update the DOM.
    - The JavaScript instructions are used to hydrate Client Components and make the application interactive.

## Server Rendering Strategies

1. Static Rendering (Default)
   - With Static Rendering, routes are rendered at build time, or in the background after data revalidation.
   - The result is cached and can be pushed to a Content Delivery Network (CDN)
   - Static rendering is useful when a route has data that is __not personalized__ to the user and can be known at build time, such as a static blog post or a product page.
2. Dynamic Rendering
   - With Dynamic Rendering, routes are rendered for each user at request time.
   - Dynamic rendering is useful when a route has data that is __personalized__ to the user or has information that can only be known at request time, such as cookies or the URL's search params.
   - As a developer, you do not need to choose between static and dynamic rendering as Next.js will automatically choose the best rendering strategy for each route based on the features and APIs used.
3. Dynamic APIs
   - Dynamic APIs rely on information that can only be known at request time (and not ahead of time during prerendering). Using any of these APIs signals the developer's intention and will opt the whole route into dynamic rendering at the request time.
   - These APIs include:
     - `cookies`
     - `headers`
     - `connection`
     - `draftMode`
     - `searchParams prop`
     - `unstable_noStore`
     - `unstable_after`
4. Streaming
   - You can start streaming route segments using `loading.js` and UI components with React Suspense. 