# Client Components

- To use Client Components, you can add the React `"use client"` directive at the top of a file
- `"use client"` is used to declare a boundary between a Server and Client Component modules. This means that by defining a "use client" in a file, all other modules __imported__ into it, including child components, are considered part of the client bundle.

- Benefits of Client Components
  - __Interactivity__: Client Components can use state, effects, and event listeners, meaning they can provide immediate feedback to the user and update the UI.
  - __Browser APIs__: Client Components have access to browser APIs

- How are client components rendered
  - it depends on whether the request is part of _a full page load_ or _a subsequent navigation_
    - Full page load
      - On the server:
        - React renders Server Components into a special data format called the React Server Component Payload (RSC Payload), which includes references to Client Components.
        - Next.js uses the RSC Payload and Client Component JavaScript instructions to render HTML for the route on the server.
      - On the client:
        - The HTML is used to immediately show a fast non-interactive initial preview of the route.
        - The React Server Components Payload is used to reconcile the Client and Server Component trees, and update the DOM.
        - The JavaScript instructions are used to hydrate Client Components and make their UI interactive.
    - Subsequent Navigations
      - Client Component JavaScript bundle is downloaded and parsed. Once the bundle is ready, React will use the RSC Payload to reconcile the Client and Server Component trees, and update the DOM.