# Car Knowledge

<style>
ol > li{
    /* font-weight:bold; */
    padding-top:20px;
    font-size:1.2rem;
}

ul > li{
    color:black;
    font-weight:normal;
    padding-top:0px;
    font-size:1rem;

}
</style>

## Basic Knowledge

1. How is the handbrake released?
   - A. By lowering the lever. ❌
   - B. By slightly pulling the lever up before lowering it. ✅
   - C. By pulling up the lever.

2. The handbrake is used when
   - A. driving on a wet surface.
   - B. stopping and waiting at a traffic light junction. ✅
   - C. going downhill. ❌

3. The correct method of braking the car is to
   - A. apply the brakes early, apply it firmly and increase the pressure gradually
   - B. apply the brakes early, apply it firmly and reduce the pressure gradually✅
   - C. apply the brakes early, apply it lightly and increase the pressure gradually ❌

4. Which gear gives you the most torque ?
     - A. 2nd gear. ❌
     - B. 1st gear. ✅
     - C. 3rd gear.

5. Which gear has more power (torque) ?
      - A. 2nd gear.✅
      - B. 3rd gear.
      - C. 4th gear. ❌

6. The effectiveness of engine brake with a 3rd gear is
   - A. greater than 2nd gear.
   - B. the same with the 2nd gear. ❌
   - C. lesser than 2nd gear. ✅

7. You need more braking effort when stopping your vehicle in
   - A. 2nd gear. ❌
   - B. 4th gear. ✅
   - C. 3rd gear.

8. The clutch pedal is to
     - A. Control the direction in which you want to travel.
     - B. Increase or decrease the engine's speed. ❌
     - C. Enable you to make or break contact between the engine and the wheels. ✅

9. After engaging the first gear and the clutch pedal is released to the 'biting point', there is
   - A. A slight increase in the engine revolution. ❌
   - B. No change in the engine revolution.
   - C. A slight drop in the engine revolution.✅

10. When the engine is producing a knocking sound, it means
    - A. The clutch is depress.
    - B. The clutch is in the half clutch position. ❌
    - C. The vehicle is going too slow for the gear in use.✅

11. When changing gear, the clutch pedal should be depress
    - A. quickly and released quickly after the change.
    - B. slowly and released quickly after the change.
    - C. quickly and released slowly after the change.✅

12. While trying to move off on an incline (uphill) and the engine stalls, you should immediately
    - A. reach for the ignition key and re-start the engine.
    - B. shift gear lever to neutral position.
    - C. step on the brake pedal.✅

13. When driving an automatic car, you would select a lower gear
    - A. before stopping.
    - B. to control speed when going down a steep hill.✅
    - C. to slow the car down in normal driving.

14. You have made 10 trips in your car and wish to find out the mileage in these 10 trips. Which meter should you look at?
      - A. Odometer✅
      - B. Distance Meter ❌
      - C. Tachometer

15. When reversing slowly, you should use
    - A. intermittent braking technique. ❌
    - B. free wheeling technique.
    - C. connecting and disconnecting clutch technique. ✅

16. Moving off on a slope involves co-ordinating the
    - A. handbrake, clutch and accelerator pedals. ✅
    - B. clutch, foot-brake and accelerator pedals.
    - C. gear, accelerator and clutch pedals. ❌

17. When driving forward, the steering wheel is __________
    - A. less sensitive when compared to reversing
    - B. more sensitive when compared to reversing ✅
    - C. just as sensitive when compared to reversing  ❌

18. Free Wheeling will allow your vehicle
    - A. to go faster than desired. ✅
    - B. to negotiate a bend easily. ❌
    - C. to stop abruptly.

19. When stopping the vehicle, the engine will stall if
    - A. The clutch pedal is depressed too late. ✅
    - B. The brake pedal is over released.
    - C. The clutch pedal is depressed too early. ❌

20. Vehicle tyres that have treads less than __________ in depth should be replaced
    - A. 1.8 mm.
    - B. 1.6 mm.✅
    - C. 2.0 mm.

21. As you steer (reverse) your vehicle into the parking space, the front of the car will
    - A. remain the same.
    - ✅B. swing out.
    - ❌C. swing in. 

## Faulty Vehicle

1. Your vehicle pulls to one side when braking, you should
     - A. consult your mechanic as soon as possible. ✅
     - B. pump the pedal when braking.
     - C. change the tyres around. ❌

2. The vehicle will wander from side to side when
   - A. the weight distribution of the car is unequal.
   - B. any of the tyres are punctured. ❌
   - C. any of the wheels are loose.✅

3. An over-heated engine is usually caused by
     - A. travelling at a high speed over a long distance.
     - B. poor maintenance of the vehicle.✅
     - C. running the engine too long while stationary. ❌

4. Generally, overheating of the engine is largely due to
     - A. poor vehicle maintenance. ✅
     - B. long distance driving.
     - C. lack of petrol. ❌
