# Road Safety

## Basic Safety

1. How does a school warden signals you to stop ?
   - A. By displaying a stop sign.✅
   - B. By pointing to children on the opposition pavement.
   - C. By giving you a hand signal. ❌

2. You see a pedestrian with a white walking stick. This means that the person is
   - A. blind only.
   - B. physically disabled. 
   - C. deaf only.

3. When being glared or blinded by the sunlight, you should
   - A. use a cap or hat.
   - B. look at the left kerb. ❌
   - C. use your sun visor or wear sun glasses. ✅

4. How should you signal when you want to stop just after a side road to the left?
   - A. give a slowing down arm signal before the junction.
   - B. wait until you have passed the junction, then signal left.✅
   - C. signal left before the junction. ❌

5. When being overtaken, you should
   - A. speed up.
   - B. maintain your speed. ❌
   - C. slow down.✅

6. While overtaking another vehicle, there should be a gap of __________ between your vehicle and the vehicle being overtaken.
   - A. 1.5 metres✅
   - B. 1 metre ❌
   - C. 0.5 metres

7. When approaching a pedestrian with the back facing you, you should keep a gap of at least
   - A. 1 metre from him.
   - B. 1.5 metres from him.✅
   - C. 2 metres from him. ❌

8. How often should a driver check if the air pressure in the tyres are correct?
   - A. every day ❌
   - B. every month
   - C. every week ✅

9. How often should you test your brakes?
   - A. Weekly. ❌
   - B. Daily.✅
   - C. Monthly.

10. When entering an expressway, you should
    - A. slow down and stop if necessary before joining the expressway.
    - B. build up your speed to merge smoothly into the traffic stream. ✅
    - C. slow down to a speed suitable for joining the expressway. ❌

11. A flashing amber traffic light signal means
    - ❌A. Stop unless you are so close to the stop-line that you cannot stop safety. 
    - ✅B. Traffic lights signals are out of order.
    - C. Signal is about to be cancelled.

12. You are about to come out at a junction. Your view is restricted by vehicles parked on the roadside. What can help you to see traffic on the road you are joining?
    - A. Making eye contact with other road users
    - ❌B. Checking for traffic in your interior mirror 
    - ✅C. Reflections of traffic in shop windows

13. When you want to stop your car, you should
    - A. stop and check the rear and side mirrors.
    - ✅B. check the rear and side mirrors, signal and then stop.
    - ❌C. signal first and then stop. 

14. Who are especially in danger of not being seen as you reverse your car?
    - A. Car drivers.
    - ✅B. Children.
    - ❌C. Motorcyclists. 

15. If a cyclist is travelling in an unsteady manner ahead, you should
    - ❌A. refrain from overtaking the cyclist. 
    - ✅B. give yourself more time in overtaking the cyclist.
    - C. overtake the cyclist quickly and quietly.

16. When two vehicles moving in opposite directions meet on a slope where the road is narrow, which vehicle should give way?
    - ❌A. The vehicle that is going up slope. 
    - ✅B. The vehicle that is going down slope.
    - C. The smaller vehicle.

17. If the car you are overtaking is drifting in its lane, you should
    - ❌A. overtake it quickly. 
    - B. signal him with your hand.
    - ✅C. use your horn to warn him.

## Turning & Bending

1. When turning left in a narrow course you should position your vehicle:
     - A. more to the left. ❌
     - B. in the centre of the course.
     - C. more to right. ✅

2. To have a better view when entering a right hand bend, you should keep
     - A. close to the centre line.
     - B. close to the left edge of the road. ✅
     - C. to the middle of the road. ❌

3. When driving through a bend, you should
     - A. maintain your speed. ✅
     - B. apply brake. ❌
     - C. depress the clutch pedal.

4. After going round a gradual bend, you should increase your acceleration
     - A. After the steering wheel has returned to its straight-ahead position. ❌
     - B. As the steering wheel is returning to its straight-ahead position.✅
     - C. Before the steering wheel returns to its straight-ahead position.

5. When you steer your car round a left hand bend, you should
   - A. slant your body to the right.
   - B. slant your body to the left. ❌
   - C. maintain normal driving posture. ✅

6. Which of the below statements about changing lanes is false?
   - A. You may have to slow down to change lanes safely.❌ 
   - B. Turn your head to check to ensure that there are no vehicles in your blind spot.
   - C. Look through the rear windscreen to judge the speed and distance of vehicles behind ✅

7. You are approaching a gradual left bend. How should you position the car?
   - ❌A. Drive nearer to the right of the lane 
   - ✅B. Drive at the center of the lane
   - C. Drive nearer to the left of the lane

## Raining Day

1. When driving on a wet road, your stopping distance will
     - A. increase to four times more than that of a dry road.
     - B. increase to twice more than that of a dry road. ✅
     - C. not increase.

2. The stopping distance on a wet road is __________ longer than on a dry road.
     - A. 4 times.
     - B. 2 times. ✅
     - C. 3 times. ❌

3. What should the following distance be when driving in a rainy day?
   - A. 2 seconds ❌
   - B. 1 seconds
   - C. 4 seconds ✅

4. In order to prevent skidding when stopping your vehicle on a wet road, you should
     - A. brake harder.
     - B. apply both the handbrake and foot brake together.  ❌
     - C. use your brakes gently and early. ✅

5. To prevent skidding when stopping your vehicle on a wet road, you should
   - A. depress the clutch pedal and apply the brake pedal early. ❌
   - B. apply intermittent braking technique.✅
   - C. depress the brake pedal and apply the hand-brake together.

## Accident

1. When you are involved in an accident, you should
   - A. not stop when there is no injury. ❌
   - B. stop only when there is injury.
   - C. stop.✅

2. At an accident scene you find someone is unconscious. What should be your first course of action?
   - A. Check if their airway is clear✅
   - B. check for their belongings
   - C. try to wake them up ❌

## Prohibitions, Points and Suspensions

1. A new driver caught not displaying the 'Probation Plate' twice would
     - A. have to pay fine. ❌
     - B. have his licence be revoked. ✅
     - C. be suspended for 6 months.

2. You are not allowed to book for a driving test, if you have accumulated
     - A. 13 demerit points. ✅
     - B. 11 demerit points.
     - C. 12 demerit points.

3. A driver will have to sit and pass the driving test again if he is suspended from driving for
     - A. 8 months.
     - B. 12 months.✅
     - C. 6 months. ❌

4. Who is prohibited to drive on the expressway ?
      - A. Motorcar probationary driving licence holders. ❌
      - B. Motorcycle riders with side - cars.✅
      - C. Motorcycle riders on probation.
